doc/production-setup.md, before:

# Production Setup Guide

This guide walks you through the initial setup of n8n for production with automatic restart on server reboot.

> **After setup:** See [Operations Guide](operations.md) for service management, monitoring, and troubleshooting.

## Architecture Overview

The production setup uses:
- **Docker** to run the n8n container
- **Systemd** to manage the service lifecycle (auto-start, auto-restart)
- **Deployment scripts** for starting/stopping the container
- **GitHub Actions** for automated deployments

## Initial Server Setup

### 1. Install Docker

```bash
# Add Docker's official GPG key
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install ca-certificates curl
sudo install -m 0755 -d /etc/apt/keyrings
sudo curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg -o /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc
sudo chmod a+r /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc

# Add the repository
echo \
  "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu \
  $(. /etc/os-release && echo "${UBUNTU_CODENAME:-$VERSION_CODENAME}") stable" | \
  sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list > /dev/null

# Install Docker
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io docker-buildx-plugin docker-compose-plugin
```

### 2. Create n8n User

```bash
# Create user with home directory at /opt/n8n
# Use UID 1000 to match container's node user for backup permissions
sudo useradd -u 1000 -d /opt/n8n -s /bin/bash n8n

# Add to docker group
sudo usermod -aG docker n8n

# Create directory structure
sudo mkdir -p /opt/n8n/deploy
sudo mkdir -p /opt/n8n/backup

# Set ownership (1000:1000 matches container's node user)
sudo chown -R 1000:1000 /opt/n8n
```

**Note:** If UID 1000 is already taken, use a different UID and fix backup permissions:
```bash
# Create user with any available UID
sudo useradd -d /opt/n8n -s /bin/bash n8n
sudo usermod -aG docker n8n

# Create directories
sudo mkdir -p /opt/n8n/deploy
sudo mkdir -p /opt/n8n/backup

# Set ownership for deploy directory
sudo chown -R n8n:docker /opt/n8n/deploy

# Backup directory must be writable by container's node user (UID 1000)
sudo chown -R 1000:1000 /opt/n8n/backup
```

### 3. Setup SSH Access for Deployment

```bash
# Switch to n8n user
sudo su - n8n

# Create SSH directory
mkdir -p ~/.ssh && chmod 700 ~/.ssh
touch ~/.ssh/authorized_keys && chmod 600 ~/.ssh/authorized_keys

# Add your GitHub deployment SSH public key
# (Copy from GitHub secrets configuration)
vim ~/.ssh/authorized_keys

# Exit back to root/sudo user
exit
```

### 4. Configure Sudo Permissions for Deployment

Allow the n8n user to manage the n8n service:

```bash
# Create sudoers file for n8n
sudo vim /etc/sudoers.d/n8n
```

Add the following content:

```
# Allow n8n user to manage n8n.service without password
n8n ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/systemctl start n8n, /usr/bin/systemctl stop n8n, /usr/bin/systemctl restart n8n, /usr/bin/systemctl status n8n
```

Save and set correct permissions:

```bash
sudo chmod 0440 /etc/sudoers.d/n8n
```

> **Note:** Docker will automatically create the `n8n_data` volume when the container first starts, so no manual volume creation is needed.

## Systemd Service Setup

### 5. Create the Service File

Create the systemd service file:

```bash
sudo vim /etc/systemd/system/n8n.service
```

Paste the following content and adjust the `WEBHOOK_URL` and `N8N_PORT` for your environment:

```ini
[Unit]
Description=n8n Workflow Automation
Documentation=https://docs.n8n.io
After=network-online.target docker.service
Wants=network-online.target
Requires=docker.service

[Service]
Type=oneshot
RemainAfterExit=yes
User=n8n
Group=docker
WorkingDirectory=/opt/n8n

# Environment variables for the container
Environment="WEBHOOK_URL=https://n8n.meimberg.io"
Environment="N8N_PORT=5678"

# Use the deployment scripts
ExecStart=/opt/n8n/deploy/scripts/start.sh
ExecStop=/opt/n8n/deploy/scripts/stop.sh

# Restart policy
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=10s

# Security settings
NoNewPrivileges=true
PrivateTmp=true

# Logging
StandardOutput=journal
StandardError=journal
SyslogIdentifier=n8n

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

### 6. Enable the Service

```bash
# Reload systemd to recognize the new service
sudo systemctl daemon-reload

# Enable service to start on boot
sudo systemctl enable n8n
```

> **Note:** Don't start the service yet - it will be started automatically by the deployment pipeline.

## First Deployment

Trigger the first deployment via GitHub Actions:

1. Push your code to the `main` branch
2. GitHub Actions will automatically:
   - Build the Docker image
   - Transfer it to the server
   - Deploy the scripts
   - Start the n8n service

The pipeline handles everything - no manual start needed!

## Verify Installation

After starting the service:

```bash
# Check service status
sudo systemctl status n8n

# Check if container is running
docker ps | grep n8n

# View logs
sudo journalctl -u n8n -f

# Test connection
curl http://localhost:5678
```

## Security Considerations

The systemd service includes security hardening:
- Runs as non-root user (`n8n`)
- `NoNewPrivileges=true` prevents privilege escalation
- `PrivateTmp=true` provides isolated temp directory

Additional recommendations:
- Set up HTTPS with reverse proxy (nginx/caddy)
- Configure firewall rules
- Enable automatic security updates
- Regular backups (see [Operations Guide](../doc/operations.md))

## Next Steps

✅ **Setup Complete!** Your n8n instance is now running in production.

### What's Next?

1. **Configure GitHub Actions** - See [Deployment Guide](../doc/deployment.md) for CI/CD setup
2. **Daily Operations** - Read [Operations Guide](../doc/operations.md) for management and troubleshooting
3. **Set Up Reverse Proxy** - Configure HTTPS access
4. **Configure Backups** - Set up automated backups (see Operations Guide)

### Automatic Restart

Your n8n instance will automatically restart after:
- ✅ Server reboot
- ✅ Container crash  
- ✅ Service failure
- ✅ Deployment updates

### Useful Commands

```bash
# Service management
sudo systemctl status n8n
sudo systemctl restart n8n

# View logs
sudo journalctl -u n8n -f
docker logs n8n -f

# Check container
docker ps | grep n8n
```

For detailed operations, monitoring, and troubleshooting, see the [Operations Guide](../doc/operations.md).

Commit message:

fix: run container as host n8n user for proper permissions
Instead of hardcoding UID 1000, run container as current user on production. Solves permission issues with backup directory without requiring special UID setup.

doc/production-setup.md, after:

# Production Setup Guide

This guide walks you through the initial setup of n8n for production with automatic restart on server reboot.

> **After setup:** See [Operations Guide](operations.md) for service management, monitoring, and troubleshooting.

## Architecture Overview

The production setup uses:
- **Docker** to run the n8n container
- **Systemd** to manage the service lifecycle (auto-start, auto-restart)
- **Deployment scripts** for starting/stopping the container
- **GitHub Actions** for automated deployments

## Initial Server Setup

### 1. Install Docker

```bash
# Add Docker's official GPG key
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install ca-certificates curl
sudo install -m 0755 -d /etc/apt/keyrings
sudo curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg -o /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc
sudo chmod a+r /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc

# Add the repository
echo \
  "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu \
  $(. /etc/os-release && echo "${UBUNTU_CODENAME:-$VERSION_CODENAME}") stable" | \
  sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list > /dev/null

# Install Docker
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io docker-buildx-plugin docker-compose-plugin
```

### 2. Create n8n User

```bash
# Create user with home directory at /opt/n8n
sudo useradd -d /opt/n8n -s /bin/bash n8n

# Add to docker group
sudo usermod -aG docker n8n

# Create directory structure
sudo mkdir -p /opt/n8n/deploy
sudo mkdir -p /opt/n8n/backup

# Set ownership
sudo chown -R n8n:docker /opt/n8n
```

**Note:** The container will automatically run as the n8n user, so no special UID configuration is needed.

### 3. Setup SSH Access for Deployment

```bash
# Switch to n8n user
sudo su - n8n

# Create SSH directory
mkdir -p ~/.ssh && chmod 700 ~/.ssh
touch ~/.ssh/authorized_keys && chmod 600 ~/.ssh/authorized_keys

# Add your GitHub deployment SSH public key
# (Copy from GitHub secrets configuration)
vim ~/.ssh/authorized_keys

# Exit back to root/sudo user
exit
```

### 4. Configure Sudo Permissions for Deployment

Allow the n8n user to manage the n8n service:

```bash
# Create sudoers file for n8n
sudo vim /etc/sudoers.d/n8n
```

Add the following content:

```
# Allow n8n user to manage n8n.service without password
n8n ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/systemctl start n8n, /usr/bin/systemctl stop n8n, /usr/bin/systemctl restart n8n, /usr/bin/systemctl status n8n
```

Save and set correct permissions:

```bash
sudo chmod 0440 /etc/sudoers.d/n8n
```

> **Note:** Docker will automatically create the `n8n_data` volume when the container first starts, so no manual volume creation is needed.

## Systemd Service Setup

### 5. Create the Service File

Create the systemd service file:

```bash
sudo vim /etc/systemd/system/n8n.service
```

Paste the following content and adjust the `WEBHOOK_URL` and `N8N_PORT` for your environment:

```ini
[Unit]
Description=n8n Workflow Automation
Documentation=https://docs.n8n.io
After=network-online.target docker.service
Wants=network-online.target
Requires=docker.service

[Service]
Type=oneshot
RemainAfterExit=yes
User=n8n
Group=docker
WorkingDirectory=/opt/n8n

# Environment variables for the container
Environment="WEBHOOK_URL=https://n8n.meimberg.io"
Environment="N8N_PORT=5678"

# Use the deployment scripts
ExecStart=/opt/n8n/deploy/scripts/start.sh
ExecStop=/opt/n8n/deploy/scripts/stop.sh

# Restart policy
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=10s

# Security settings
NoNewPrivileges=true
PrivateTmp=true

# Logging
StandardOutput=journal
StandardError=journal
SyslogIdentifier=n8n

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

### 6. Enable the Service

```bash
# Reload systemd to recognize the new service
sudo systemctl daemon-reload

# Enable service to start on boot
sudo systemctl enable n8n
```

> **Note:** Don't start the service yet - it will be started automatically by the deployment pipeline.

## First Deployment

Trigger the first deployment via GitHub Actions:

1. Push your code to the `main` branch
2. GitHub Actions will automatically:
   - Build the Docker image
   - Transfer it to the server
   - Deploy the scripts
   - Start the n8n service

The pipeline handles everything - no manual start needed!

## Verify Installation

After starting the service:

```bash
# Check service status
sudo systemctl status n8n

# Check if container is running
docker ps | grep n8n

# View logs
sudo journalctl -u n8n -f

# Test connection
curl http://localhost:5678
```

## Security Considerations

The systemd service includes security hardening:
- Runs as non-root user (`n8n`)
- `NoNewPrivileges=true` prevents privilege escalation
- `PrivateTmp=true` provides isolated temp directory

Additional recommendations:
- Set up HTTPS with reverse proxy (nginx/caddy)
- Configure firewall rules
- Enable automatic security updates
- Regular backups (see [Operations Guide](../doc/operations.md))

## Next Steps

✅ **Setup Complete!** Your n8n instance is now running in production.

### What's Next?

1. **Configure GitHub Actions** - See [Deployment Guide](../doc/deployment.md) for CI/CD setup
2. **Daily Operations** - Read [Operations Guide](../doc/operations.md) for management and troubleshooting
3. **Set Up Reverse Proxy** - Configure HTTPS access
4. **Configure Backups** - Set up automated backups (see Operations Guide)

### Automatic Restart

Your n8n instance will automatically restart after:
- ✅ Server reboot
- ✅ Container crash  
- ✅ Service failure
- ✅ Deployment updates

### Useful Commands

```bash
# Service management
sudo systemctl status n8n
sudo systemctl restart n8n

# View logs
sudo journalctl -u n8n -f
docker logs n8n -f

# Check container
docker ps | grep n8n
```

For detailed operations, monitoring, and troubleshooting, see the [Operations Guide](../doc/operations.md).
